---
layout: home
permalink: index.html

# Please update this with your repository name and title
repository-name: e15-4yp-Hand-Gesture-Recognition-using-sEMG
title:
---

[comment]: # "This is the standard layout for the project, but you can clean this and use your own template"

# Project Title

#### Team

- E/15/043, Yasiru Bhagya T.P., [yasirubhagya@eng.pdn.ac.lk](mailto:yasirubhagya@eng.pdn.ac.lk)
- E/15/131, Hisni Mohammed M.H., [hisnimohammed@eng.pdn.ac.lk](mailto:hisnimohammed@eng.pdn.ac.lk)
- E/15/348, Suhail S., [suhailsajahan@eng.pdn.ac.lk](mailto:suhailsajahan@eng.pdn.ac.lk)

#### Supervisors

- Dr. Isuru Nawinne, [isurunawinne@eng.pdn.ac.lk](mailto:isurunawinne@eng.pdn.ac.lk)
- Prof. Roshan Ragel, [roshanr@eng.pdn.ac.lk](mailto:roshanr@eng.pdn.ac.lk)

#### Table of content

1. [Abstract](#abstract)
2. [Related works](#related-works)
3. [Methodology](#methodology)
4. [Experiment Setup and Implementation](#experiment-setup-and-implementation)
5. [Results and Analysis](#results-and-analysis)
6. [Conclusion](#conclusion)
7. [Links](#links)

---

## Abstract
Identifying hand gestures using surface electromyography (sEMG) signals is vital in the development of next-generation human-machine interfaces (HMI). sEMG based HMIs provide users with a more natural and convenient way to communicate with computing systems. sEMG signals recorded from muscle tissues gives information about the intention of movement generated by the human brain. Identifying these movements allows the creation of interfaces that can control computing devices. In this research, an online open dataset of sEMG signals was used to develop a hand gesture recognition model that could be used as a Human Machine Interface. Time, frequency, and time-frequency domain features were fed into four classic machine learning classifiers. A maximum accuracy of 90.03% was achieved using an SVM classifier with RMS, MNF, and MDF features for 24 channel data.

## Related works


## Methodology

## Experiment Setup and Implementation

## Results and Analysis

## Conclusion

## Links

- [Project Repository](https://github.com/cepdnaclk/{{ page.repository-name }}){:target="_blank"}
- [Project Page](https://cepdnaclk.github.io/{{ page.repository-name}}){:target="_blank"}
- [Department of Computer Engineering](http://www.ce.pdn.ac.lk/){:target="_blank"}
- [University of Peradeniya](https://eng.pdn.ac.lk/){:target="_blank"}

[//]: # "Please refer this to learn more about Markdown syntax"
[//]: # "https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet"
